E2E data driven test cases (#12313)
handsontable/handsontable: .claude/skills/handsontable-e2e-testing/SKILL.md

---
name: handsontable-e2e-testing

> description: Use when writing or modifying Jasmine/Puppeteer E2E tests (*.spec.js) for Handsontable, or when a bug fix or feature change needs E2E test coverage - covers the standard boilerplate, global test helpers, async/await requirements, mouse and keyboard event simulation, plugin lifecycle testing patterns, and token-driven theme-specific expectations via getThemeLayout() (viewport helpers, DOM measurements, and relational assertions that work across all themes)

Reviewer: The description says "token-driven theme-specific expectations" which reads as if tests should be theme-specific -- the opposite of what this section teaches. Suggest tightening to make "theme-agnostic" the explicit goal and drop the nested parenthetical list.

```suggestion
description: Use when writing or modifying Jasmine/Puppeteer E2E tests (*.spec.js) for Handsontable, or when a bug fix or feature change needs E2E test coverage. Covers standard boilerplate, async/await rules, global helpers, event simulation, plugin lifecycle patterns, and writing theme-agnostic assertions that pass under all themes without branching on theme name.
```

- **Selection:** `selectCell()`, `selectCells()`, `getSelected()`
- **DOM:** `getCell()`, `spec()`, `hot()`
- **Plugins:** `getPlugin()`
- **Theme layout:** `getLoadedTheme()`, `getThemeLayout()` (see `.ai/TESTING.md`)
- **Iframe `doc.write` theme CSS:** `getE2eThemeStylesheetLinkTagsHtml()` (all themes), `getE2eThemeStylesheetLinkTagHtml(key)`, `getE2eNormalizeStylesheetLinkTagHtml()` -- from `common.js`; theme list is `E2E_REGISTERED_THEME_KEYS` in `themeLayoutFromTokens.js`, auto-discovered from `src/themes/theme/index.js` (add a theme there and the list updates automatically).
- Full list in `test/helpers/common.js`.

## Theme-specific expected values

> Use `const layout = getThemeLayout()` (token-backed; merged API from `test/helpers/themeLayoutFromTokens.js`, which exposes token primitives, `overlayHeight` / `verticalScrollForRow` helpers, and scenario-specific `e2e*` / `e2eGcr_*` / `e2eDensity_*` regression helpers).

Reviewer: The heading "Theme-specific expected values" signals the opposite of the section's intent -- the entire point is to write tests that are theme-agnostic. The core rule ("never branch on getLoadedTheme()") is also buried on line 81; surfacing it as the opening principle makes the why clear before the how.

```suggestion
## Theme-agnostic assertions

Every test must pass under every theme. Never branch on `getLoadedTheme()` or hardcode per-theme pixel values in specs -- use `getThemeLayout()` token helpers or live DOM measurements instead.

Use `const layout = getThemeLayout()` (token-backed; merged API from `test/helpers/themeLayoutFromTokens.js`, which exposes token primitives, `overlayHeight` / `verticalScrollForRow` helpers, and scenario-specific `e2e*` / `e2eGcr_*` / `e2eDensity_*` regression helpers).
```

- **Selection:** `selectCell()`, `selectCells()`, `getSelected()`
- **DOM:** `getCell()`, `spec()`, `hot()`
- **Plugins:** `getPlugin()`
- **Theme layout:** `getLoadedTheme()`, `getThemeLayout()` (see `.ai/TESTING.md`)
- **Iframe `doc.write` theme CSS:** `getE2eThemeStylesheetLinkTagsHtml()` (all themes), `getE2eThemeStylesheetLinkTagHtml(key)`, `getE2eNormalizeStylesheetLinkTagHtml()` -- from `common.js`; theme list is `E2E_REGISTERED_THEME_KEYS` in `themeLayoutFromTokens.js`, auto-discovered from `src/themes/theme/index.js` (add a theme there and the list updates automatically).
- Full list in `test/helpers/common.js`.

## Theme-agnostic assertions

Every test must pass under every theme. Never branch on `getLoadedTheme()` or hardcode per-theme pixel values in specs -- use `getThemeLayout()` token helpers or live DOM measurements instead.

> Use `const layout = getThemeLayout()` (token-backed; merged API from `test/helpers/themeLayoutFromTokens.js`, which exposes token primitives, `overlayHeight` / `verticalScrollForRow` helpers, and scenario-specific `e2e*` / `e2eGcr_*` / `e2eDensity_*` regression helpers).

Reviewer: - SKILL.md:83 still references `expectInnerHandsontableEditorListClientBoxMatchesSettings()` and `expectGetEditedCellRectFromPartial`
 - SKILL.md:58 and `.ai/TESTING.md:376,437,453-455` still reference the `e2eGcr_*` / `e2eDensity_*` hex-named helpers

Author: @cursoragent fix
